[Music]
i feel like a
little mole emerging from the depths
i've never been camping before
mummy always said it's something nice
jewish girls don't do
do you mind somebody coming so close to
your
quiet place not at all my name is miriam
and
this is my home it's got a front door it
has
are you a homeless person no i have a
home
let me hear your story i have two
children and four grandchildren
so but no husband no husband
i just drive i use a thing called wiki
camps
on my phone and it tells me where free
campsites are
so i live off-grid i don't have no
electricity
i make my own with solar panels
wow you're responsible you're a
thoughtful grey no-man
not even grey but i mean that's the
the concept isn't it all no the grey
nomads are people that have
have their own home and they get a super
big caravan
this is my home i live in it full time
would you like to have a look
i would actually
you do cook i do cook i don't eat
takeaway food
is that television no it's my computer
i'm a photographer and i do photo
editing
i like to stand up sometimes and work
blimey so this is compact that's your
bed
this is my bed i could sit here and i
could
pull this out and i could eat here or i
can
you know use a laptop here it's very
cleverly designed
i'll show you this even though it is a
wee bit messy
this is my bathroom this is a compost
toilet
and this is my shower complete with
toilet paper
that i can hang up there and i can put a
shower curtain on there
so i do have it all so yeah slightly
nutty
it is slightly nutty and you prepare
meals here i do there are a few things a
78 year old lady like me needs
and one of them is a toilet outside the
kitchen
what made you take this decision to do
this
well i had a house and but i also had a
mortgage
i thought better to feel wealthy in
something small
than feel anxious about mortgage
and maintenance on a single pension
there are women especially that raise
their children
they don't have the same length of
putting money into a pension fund
so they're a bit strapped for cash there
bit strap for cash
i've met women who live in cars
i met a one one woman who lives in a
tent
but yeah so there are lots of women like
this are they
seeming more normal now in my age group
miriam
jeez that's not right
i'm trying to find out what
the australian dream is did you have a
dream or
i think the dream is probably freedom
now whether that be freedom to have a
beautiful big house and a pool
and a family and a good job it's the
freedom to live the way you want to live
[Music]
i love the idea of a dream that's about
freedom and not about property
but i'm shocked to discover that women
over 55
now make up the fastest growing
population of homeless in the country
there are nearly 117 000
homeless people in australia
and a lot of them are older women
women are generally retiring at the
moment with half the superannuation men
have
probably claire is making the best of a
very
tough situation
[Music]